About Ethiopia
Worksheets
Free Sample
Thank you so much for downloading the sample resource.
We hope it has been useful for you in the classroom and that your
students enjoy the activities.
KidsKonnect is a very small family run business and we are proud
that we can offer education to over 40 countries globally. The more
support we have from our Premium members the more resources
we can release.
If you want the more comprehensive and detailed worksheet
collection then please upgrade to our Premium plan and support
our quest to make education affordable for all.
Don’t forget to come back and download the new material we add
every week!
Thanks for supporting KidsKonnect. We can provide teachers with
low-cost, high-quality teaching resources because of our loyal
subscribers and hope to serve you for many years to come.
- The Entire KidsKonnect Team :
KIDSKONNECT.COM
Ethiopia is a landlocked country located in East Africa. It is officially
known as the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, and it has a
population of 109 million (as of 2019), making it the most populous
landlocked country in the world. Ethiopia is the second-most populous
nation on the continent of Africa.
Ethiopia Facts
GENERAL FACTS
★ The capital and largest city of Ethiopia is Addis Ababa.
★ In Amharic language, “Addis Ababa” (or “Addis Abeba”) means “new
flower”.
★ In Oromo language, the city is called Finfinne, which means “natural
spring”.
★ The city of Addis Ababa is populated by roughly 2,739,551
inhabitants, according to a 2007 census.
★ Addis Ababa is a Chartered City, which means it is also the capital
city of the Oromia Region, the Ethiopian regional state inhabited by
the Oromo people.
KIDSKONNECT.COM
Ethiopia Facts
Map of Ethiopia
★ The official language of Ethiopia is Amharic, along with six regional
languages: Afar, Harari, Oromo, Tigrinya, Sidama, and Somali.
★ The major religion in Ethiopia is Christianity.
★ Ethiopia is governed as an Ethno-federalist, parliamentary,
constitutional republic.
★ An Ethno-federalist government is a federal system of government
that defines federal units according to ethnicity.
★ Ethiopia has ten federal regions and two city administrations: Addis
Ababa (city); Afar Region; Amhara Region; Benishangul-Gumuz
Region; Dire Dawa (city); Gambella Region; Harari Region; Oromia
Region; Somali Region; Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's
Region; Tigray Region; and Sidama Region.
★ The demonym for the citizens of Ethiopia is Ethiopians, which
consists of various ethnic groups inhabiting the country.
★ These ethnic groups and the
percentage of the population
they consist of are as follows:
○ Oromo, 34.5%
○ Amhara, 26.9%
○ Somali, 6.2%
○ Tigrayan, 6.1%
○ Sidama, 4%
○ Gurage, 2.5%
○ Wolayta, 2.3%
○ Hadiya, 1.7%
○ Afar, 1.7%
KIDSKONNECT.COM
Ethiopia Facts
Map of Horn of Africa
GEOGRAPHY
★ Ethiopia is the world's 28th-largest country, and it is 1,104,300
square kilometers wide.
★ A large part of Ethiopia is
located on the easternmost
side of the African continent,
and the majority of Ethiopia
lies in the Horn of Africa.
○ The Horn of Africa is an
African peninsula that
lies along the southern
side of the Red Sea.
★ Ethiopia is bordered by Eritrea to the north, Djibouti to the northeast,
Somalia to the east, Kenya to the south, South Sudan to the west,
and Sudan to the northwest, making it a landlocked country.
ETYMOLOGY
★ The Greek term Aethiopia is a geographical term used in classical
documents to refer to the upper Nile region and particular areas of
the Sahara region.
★ Herodotus, a Greek historian, used the term to refer to the known
parts of Africa within the habitable world.
★ This term might be derived from the Ancient Egyptian term athiu-abu,
meaning “robbers of hearts”.
★ Simply, the Greek term was borrowed by the Amharic language.
KIDSKONNECT.COM
Ethiopia Facts
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND
★ D'mt (980 BC-c. 400 BC)
○ This kingdom was theoretically pronounced as Da'amat.
○ It existed in Eritrea and the Tigray Region of Ethiopia.
○ Little documentation of this kingdom has survived, so it is unknown if
the kingdom of D'mt successfully progressed into civilization.
★ Kingdom of Aksum (80 BC - 940 AD)
○ It was also known as the Aksumite Empire or the Kingdom of Axum.
○ The Kingdom of Aksum succeeded the Kingdom of D'mt and was
also centered in Eritrea and Tigray Region of Ethiopia.
○ The city of Axum (now a tourist city) was the Axumite center of
politics.
★ Zagwe Dynasty (900-1270)
○ This medieval kingdom existed in northern
Ethiopia.
○ The Zagwe Dynasty was centered in
Lalibela, a town in the Lasta Amhara Region.
○ It played a role on the commercial route
between the Roman Empire and India.
○ Axumites succeeded in minting their own
currency.
Gebre Mesqel Lalibela,
king of the Zagwe
★ Ethiopian Empire (1270-1974)
○ This empire is also known as Abyssinia,
or just simply Ethiopia.
○ The Ethiopian Empire is a monarchy that
ruled over Ethiopia and Eritrea.
○ The Ethiopian Empire was believed to begin when the
Solomonic dynasty was established by Yekuno Amlak, an
Amharan prince, in 1270.
KIDSKONNECT.COM
Ethiopia Facts
★ Derg (1974-1987)
○ It was officially known as the
Provisional Military Government
of Socialist Ethiopia.
○ It is a military junta, or committee,
that ruled Ethiopia after the fall of
the Ethiopian Empire.
○ The Ethiopian Empire lasted until 1974. The fall of the Ethiopian
Empire was due to the coup d'etat by the communist Derg, who
overthrew the Emperor Haile Selassie.
★ People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
(1987-1991)
○ This was a communist state that ruled
Ethiopia.
○ It governed Ethiopia as a Unitary
Marxist-Leninist, one-party, socialist
republic, ruled by an authoritarian
dictator.
★ Eritrea separated from Ethiopia in 1993.
★ The current constitution of Ethiopia was
imposed on August 21, 1995.
○ It is the supreme law of the Federal
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.
○ It is a constitution that consists of 106
articles within 11 chapters.
○ It provides a federal government that
defines its units according to nine
ethnically based regions of Ethiopia.
Leading Members of the Derg
Iyasu V, Emperor of
Ethiopia from 1913-1916
KIDSKONNECT.COM
Ethiopia Facts
The Axum Obelisk
CULTURE
★ Ethiopians have a distinct naming system. The children's given name
is the sum of their father and their paternal grandfather's given
names.
★ Ethiopia has a distinct calendar called the Ge'ez calendar.
★ The day in Ethiopia begins at 6:00 in the morning, not at 0:00 or 12
midnight, as time is counted in a different way in this country.
LANDMARKS
★ Allalobed Geysers — A group of hot springs and geysers located in
Afar.
★ Anabe Forest — A unique yellowwood forest that is 53 hectares
wide. It is located in Amhara.
★ Grand Muleta Cloud Forest — A diverse mountain cloud forest
found in Oromia.
★ Goda Roriisso — A giant boulder covered with ancient Ethiopian
artworks. It is located in Oromia.
★ Axum Obelisk — An obelisk up to 24 meters high, which was made
in the 4th century. It is located in Tigray.
KIDSKONNECT.COM
Name: ______________
Write ETHIOPIA if the statement about Ethiopia is true
and ERROR if it is false.
Ethiopia or Error
ETHIOPIA WORKSHEETS
Ethiopia is the most populous landlocked
country in the world.
Addis Ababa is the capital and largest city of
Ethiopia.
Ethiopia is the most populous nation on the
continent of Africa.
Islam is the major religion in Ethiopia.
It is believed that the name Ethiopia is derived
from the Greek term Aethiopia.
Ethiopia is located in East Africa.
KIDSKONNECT.COM
Name: ______________
ANSWER KEY
Ethiopia or Error
ETHIOPIA WORKSHEETS
Ethiopia is the most populous landlocked
country in the world. ETHIOPIA
Addis Ababa is the capital and largest city of
Ethiopia. ETHIOPIA
Ethiopia is the most populous nation on the
continent of Africa.
Islam is the major religion in Ethiopia.
It is believed that the name Ethiopia is derived
from the Greek term Aethiopia.
Ethiopia is located in East Africa.
ERROR
ERROR
ETHIOPIA
ETHIOPIA
KIDSKONNECT.COM
Copyright Notice
This resource is licensed under the Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International license.
You are free to:
● Share — copy and redistribute the material in any
medium or format
● Adapt — remix, transform, and build upon the material
Under the following terms:
● Attribution — You must give appropriate credit, provide
a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made.
You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in
any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or
your use.
● NonCommercial — You may not use the material for
commercial purposes.
For more information on this license, visit the following link:
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/
Where possible, free-use images are sourced from online
repositories such as Wikipedia and Wikimedia Commons.
References and sources for images are provided in the
speaker notes section of this document.
Thank you!